and we'll take you straight back to the
Gaza Strip where the Civil Defense
Agency is giving a an update on recent
events let's listen in in a row today we
are entering into the eighth month of
this genocide War the civil defense
team's efforts humanitarian efforts all
across the provinces of Gaza Strip have
not been halted throughout this genocide
War we have performed 37 ,500 missions
which is equivalent to 24 years of hard
work before the war as a result our
heavy equipment and Machinery have worn
out and although we are being targeted
by the Israeli occupation forces as we
lost 39 civil defense members till this
hour the Israeli occupation forces
continue to torpedo all the humanitarian
efforts all across Gaza Strip
although the international law provides
certain protections to the civil defense
teams the Israeli occupation forces
continue to violate this law
perpetrating killing among our members
destroying our heavy equipment
preventing us from recovering the dead
bodies even those survivors trapped
under the
debris the Israeli occupation forces
continue to Target and destroy the heavy
equipment that help us recover the
victims and above all we are facing
sharp shortage of fuel whereby we will
come to a total hold whereby thousands
of lives will be lost especially we will
not be able to recover dead bodies or
survivors from under the debris and as
we speak hundreds of victims remain
buried under the rubbles and our teams
are not able to recover them and these
numbers are continuing to rise the lack
of fuel exaggerates our problem
therefore we condemn the purposal
targeting by the Israeli occupation
forces where 39 of our members were
killed
150 injured many of them suffered
repeated injuries on a number of
occasions we call on the International
Community to continue the Israeli
occupation violation
and purposeful targeting of our
teams we hold Israeli accountable for
targeting the civil defense members and
all those performing humanitarian Aid am
made the total absence of heavy
equipment and fuel our efforts will not
suffice to meet the basic minimum needs
of our people namely to recover hundreds
of dead bodies and survivors from under
the debris our efforts will be further
compared as the occupation forces have
left more than
37,000 tons of debris all across the
Enclave silenced by the International
Community and the United Nations amid
the continued crimes and this genocide
War by the Israeli occupation forces
including the willful targeting of the
civil defense and ambulance teams means
that the these apparatuses are
condemned to execution by the
International Community as the
International Community remain silent
amid the israeli's continued violation
we call on the Secretary General of the
United Nations and all the international
organization to lend a helping hand to
the civil defense and all other
humanitarian teams within the
Enclave we renew our appeal to all the
stakeholders namely the world health
organizations United Nations and the
International Association of protection
of civil defense and all other concerned
organization to act
swiftly in order to allow the
unconditional delivery of heavy
equipment required for the civil defense
teams to operate all across the Enclave
namely in the north especially are faced
with a massive dilemma namely the
floated and wreaking bodies being
decomposed under the debris we call in
the naal Red Cross to exercise more
pressure on the Israeli occupation
forces in order to allow the
intervention by the civil defense and
ambulance teams in the targeted area
especially that dozens are being killed
and buried under the debris survivors
are trapped under the rebels this is a
statement issued on this day by the
civil defense department of Gaza Strip
all right you've been listening to the
Palestinian civil Defense Agency they
were talking just outside Al AXA
hospital that's in daral Bala in the
central part of the Gaza Strip uh as a
reminder there is fighting going on in
the north around jabalia there's
fighting going on in the South around
Rafa and people who have been fleeing
Rafa in their hundreds of thousands have
been coming towards the center of the
strip which has not made them uh any
safer over the last few days as we've
seen 14 Palestinians were killed uh
overnight in nerat in the central part
of the strip all right let's bring in
Muhammad El masri iCal analyst professor
of media studies at the Doha Institute
for Graduate Studies you were listening
to this uh with us the the um the Civil
Defense Agency really spotlighting how
difficult I would say almost impossible
listening to them it is to do their job
they are the people who go to the blast
sites the target sites after an Israeli
strike and they try to pull the injured
and the dead out of the rubble and
they're saying it's become almost
impossible right and I I think it's
important to take a step back um and
think about Israel's larger strategy
here uh Israel has a a philosophy an
ideology called greater Israel it's a
it's kind of a policy uh they want to be
able to take over all of the all of the
land they believe that all of the land
from The River To The Sea should belong
to the Jews and it must be purified of
the Arab presence One Vision for what
the country should be absolutely and
it's increasingly popular and is
Israelis it used to be sort of unspoken
now they're now they're saying it out
loud um and that was one of the goals
it's quite clear from early October um
for this this war they wanted to
ethnically cleanse uh the Gaza Strip and
part of that involves making life
completely uninhabitable um and and
that's what uh I think is happening Gaza
is now pretty much uninhabitable there
was a report released within the last
two weeks by the United Nations that
said it'll take 80 years to rebuild Gaza
um there's just not much left in terms
of just infrastructure and and services
even if the war ended today uh some
numbers on that to your point 70% I
think it's the same source as the UN
saying 70% of buildings have been either
totally destroyed or partially destroyed
and uh and and a data point that was
just given to us by the Civil Defense
Agency they say 37 tons of debris are
strewn across Gaza when these buildings
are hollowed out or or destroyed right
and then you also have the problem of
the unexploded bombs which experts are
saying will take about 14 years uh to
clear uh so those are just those are
humanitarian disasters uh wait waiting
to happen and so it begs the question
you know what next what what is the end
game what's going to happen to all of
these people and I think Israel's hope
is still that Egypt is going to open
those Borders or that they will be
forced open and that all the gazin will
flood into Egypt you know that's so
interesting you're not the first analyst
who has sat there since the beginning of
this war and said even in the early days
uh you and a couple of your uh
colleagues were
saying Israel's goal is to move
Palestinians out of the Gaza Strip that
hasn't happened all the most somber most
pessimistic predictions in terms of the
number of people killed Etc have come to
pass but the one of moving Palestinians
out of the Gaza Strip it I mean it has
to the extent that many Palestinians
have left those who could those who
could either afford to bribe their way
way out or were dual Nationals but
Israel hasn't
actually moved wholesale Palestinians
out of the strip that hasn't happened it
doesn't happen because Israel hasn't
been able to do it Israel does have to
operate under certain constraints there
are political constraints so one of the
things that I think Israel expected to
happen uh was that Egypt would would
give in and open its borders they
started asking this question in October
why doesn't Egypt open its borders and
take these people in as refugees uh uh
Egypt for its part has been completely
unwilling uh to do that and we've seen
Egypt now within the last 48 hours uh
adding its name to this icj case the
genocide case um that South Africa
brought against Israel uh at the at the
world Court um because they're so
unhappy with Israel violating these
agreements related to uh Rafa which is
supposed to be a demilitarized zone
Israel is taking it over everything but
everything but demilitarized now exactly
exactly so um Egypt hasn't been able to
uh uh hasn't been willing to open its
border and the United States hasn't been
willing to go so far as to fully support
this kind of mass population transfer
that's why it hasn't happened yet Al
yeah they have vocally said the us that
they oppose it they said there cannot be
a reduction of the Palestinian
population in Gaza absolutely absolutely
but the question becomes if pressure
continues to be exerted if Netanyahu
gets his wish in December he said he
wants this war to go on or he expected
the war to go on throughout 2024 so if
we're sitting here uh sirel in December
or November and we're still talking
about a war on Gaza what will be left
and will uh will Israel ultimately be
able to force the hand of of the United
States of Egypt and of the International
Community what will be left and how many
will be left because there's every
indication that Israel has been using
starvation as a as a weapon of War it's
been accused of doing so there's every
objective reason to to to believe that's
the case they are they are deciding to
block the aid from the Gaza Strip um the
UN has said it's a full-blown famine the
definition of famine is that people are
dying right they're dying because they
don't have enough food and if people
aren't dying of famine and they're
they're dying of the bombs Israel has a
Kill Zone policy we're talking about
this un worker who was killed uh there
were three Israelis W waving White Flags
a couple of months ago and they were
killed Israel has a Killzone policy
that's why all these civil that's one of
the reasons why so many civilians are
killed there are other reasons of course
Israel has this 20 to1 ratio this 100
to1 ratio this kind of calculus for how
many civilians it's willing to kill if
it identifies a Hamas fighter in a
particular area so to your point if the
gazin aren't dying of starvation they
may be dying of bombs if pull all those
threads together everything you've all
all these issues that you've just raised
what do you think is the endgame because
it's actually really hard to see one I
mean of course Benjamin Netanyahu speaks
of total Victory and victory in his mind
equals wiping out
Hamas um no one's holding their breath
on that right now um what do you think
he's actually really aiming to to do
then well I think there are multiple
things I think he wants to prolong the
war as much as possible I do think he
wants to eliminate
but wants toate the stri think that's a
for it's also the of Ben and ands on the
um uh in Israel um you know the question
and again I said this in the LA our last
conversation I don't want to be
reductionist about it but so much of
this comes down to what the United
States is going to do and what they're
willing uh to tolerate and that's what I
don't have an answer I don't have an
answer to that question okay well since
you since you bring that up I did say
that there was a conversation waiting to
happen there right we have a few minutes
hanim mahmud's going to be coming up for
us from Daryl Bal in just a moment so
let's take this minute to have that
conversation you said this is going
likely going to cost Joe Biden the
election that's the most affirmative
that I've heard any of our analysts be
on that issue well CNN did um a poll not
long ago it shows I think it was last
week it shows that uh Biden is trailing
Donald Trump by six percentage points in
the kind of the overall popular vote
right now um more substantively though
538 which is a website that does opinion
polling they're showing that Trump is
leading uh uh Biden in six of the seven
swing States there's no path forward for
Joe Biden if he doesn't win a majority
of those uh swing States so barring
something cataclysmic I don't see how
you know what the way forward is for the
for the Biden campaign but the
counterargument I suppose would be I
mean Joe Biden May well lose but that
doesn't necessarily mean is because of
Gaza I believe recent polling shows that
uh as far as priorities vot for for
voters Gaza in the top five but it's not
one two or three but it's enough you see
it's it's enough to push those swing
voters into the direction of of Donald
Trump right we saw this happen at in
Michigan Wisconsin and Minnesota and
other states where people showed up to
the polls at the primaries and just
voted uncommitted undecided right so
they were protest voting the numbers
that we have just from those States
would be enough based on the the 2020
election figures would be enough to
propel Donald Trump to vict victory in
those States so it's very damaging that
same CNN poll by the way shows that 39%
of college students in the United States
are now identifying as Pro Palestinian
only 11% are identifying as pro-
Israelis those college students are
going to vote in this upcoming election
and they're going to have a a strong say
in who the next president of the United
States is but here's my question team
Biden doesn't want to throw away this
election under no circumstance under no
pretext and for no reason do they want
to sacrif I a second term right they
don't want to throw away this election
so I I listen to you and I assume that
means they're making a different
calculation yeah I mean if you're asking
me to make sense of it I don't I I can't
I am a little bit I can't make sense of
it I'm I'm not the first person to say
this in fact it's been months now where
other analysts including in the United
States have been saying that Biden has
committed political suicide and that's
the best I think that's the best
two-word uh uh sort of description of
what's what's happening here now why
he's doing that that's anybody's you
know best guess at this point I don't
have a rational explanation why the
Democrat this is for them this is a
disaster to have Donald Trump reappear
as the president second time over Trump
2.0 it would be a disaster for the
Democrats but how can we explain 7
months of complicity uh in genocide as I
said in the last interview well I think
the first few months they didn't think
it was going to cost them politically of
course the wind has kind of turned well
I I would argue that by about November
it was it was pretty clear that this was
a disaster not you know forget about the
humanitarian side of things for a moment
I think it was a disaster for the United
States politically and I think we can
see that if you go back and read some of
the analyses that were published in
November so I don't think the Biden
Administration is going to have an
excuse when it's all said and done
they're going to have no one to blame
but themselves Mohammad El MRI I I said
there was a conversation waiting to
happen on that issue right of of
American support and why and what
consequences it might have I'm glad that
we took the time to have it thank you so
much
thanks okay let's go to Hy Mahmud uh
honey you're in De darl Bala just
outside the alaka hospital uh we we just
heard the Gaza Civ Civil Defense Agency
a few minutes ago talk from roughly
where you're standing outside the
hospital and what they were explaining
honey is that this is the one thing that
that that stayed with me will stay with
me I think the longest they said they've
carried out
37,000 missions since the beginning of
this war that is the equivalent of 20
years of work at the pre-war
rate yes absolutely and it does does
show show the uh the the largest scale
of of of Destruction across the Gaza
Strip and the uh uh and around the hour
uh they've been working they've been uh
everywhere virtually across the Gaza
Strip to areas that that have been
bombed or targeted by the Israeli
military doing their best and to the
best of their capacity uh to provide
help support and and help those who are
trapped and under doubles or save those
who are in targeted sites and and and
that that large uh large number of of
missions that been H performed by the
civil defense crew to show how difficult
the situations have been we we spoke
briefly after the the press conference
just to get a sense of of how they they
manage all of this and it's beyond
anyone could imagine the the level of of
coordination and the the the level of of
ability available given the fact that
they've been deliberately targeted as
well on the ground civil defense crew
members the ground have been
deliberately targeted by is military
more than one time throughout uh the
past seven months of this War uh we
talked about the the challenges that are
uh on every day at any given uh
unfolding situation across the Gaza
Strip and and the fact that there are
evacuation orders from one place to
another that has affected uh the uh the
effectiveness and the level of response
of the civil defense crew member to
provide uh a efficient and and and and
and emergency uh and a quick response uh
to their work on on the ground uh the
intense bombing campaign it's one of the
things that pointed out as a major
challenge uh to ensure safety for for
civil defense crew member on the ground
it has been quite difficult uh and we
see them we we see them either in Rafa
City uh or here in there balah within
the past few days and and and they work
more before that in the northern part
and Gaza City under unusually difficult
uh circumstances one thing that stands
out right now other than the large
number of of of missions H performed on
the ground is the lack of equipment the
lack of a proper Machinery uh they also
in terms of Human Resources it has been
quite difficult uh for them they lost
many of the Civil defensive crew members
they resorted into volunteering system
and that as well is experiencing extreme
shortage right now just given how
difficult it is uh they're still uh
performing uh a across STP trying to be
at every targeted site at the best of
their capacity but there is a a a a need
a necessary need for help and support
for the civil defense uh uh Department
Civil Defense crew members on the ground
in order to continue performing uh the
lack of fuel right now is on top of the
lack of Machinery equipment is affecting
also the level of response and the their
ability to move from from one place to
another and to respond quickly to
targeted sites yeah and I and I'll
repeat what they said that they do this
at extreme danger to themselves 39 civil
defense Personnel have been killed since
the beginning of the war hany Mahmud
thank you again for your reporting from
darlala
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jazer